Our project is Machine Learning for Euchre and the social goals are broad. We would make it free source for any euchre player who would want to play against a strong opponent. It could also provide value in machine learning research. There are many benefits that would come out of this project so we don’t see any real issues other than fear mongering anti-AI people. Their perceptions of AI’s going rogue are based on Hollywood films like the Terminator, when in fact, we have a long way to go before we can create an AI that can truly think like humans. This project serves to provide competition for euchre players and material for anyone interested in machine learning and AI so that it provides a great benefit to society.

We believe that our project will have a tremendous impact on our professional development. Machine learning is a huge buzzword in today’s CS job market so it should make us more appealing. By showing off our exceptional skills that we have acquired over the years, we can impress any potential employers. We expect our project to need and apply specialized expertise, namely our Senior Design advisor, Anca Ralescu as she has a lot of experience with AI and machine learning. Already she has helped us out with the project in terms of getting started and we expect to make great progress soon. We already feel like professionals working on a huge project and are looking forward to the results.

At this point in time, there are no real financial limitations to the solution. We might find ourselves having to use freeware in the future for the purpose of trying to implement the machine learning algorithm. Right now, we are content to use our own machines to run the machine learning algorithm. We’re going to try to limit purchasing any special equipment or software. As a group, we came up with this project by ourselves and have no restrictions to UC or any other facilities. We aren’t trying to really make a profit off the project. This is a challenge for us to apply our knowledge to one of our midwestern passions.

Legal factors might come into play as we implement the machine learning algorithm. We aren’t sure if algorithms can be copyrighted so we’ll have to do research on that. For the most part, we will be doing research and using languages that have good machine learning support. We’ll be looking at example implementations of machine learning for games and might have to mention that. We are sure that we’ll avoid any legal troubles when undertaking the task of creating the algorithm that learns euchre. We haven’t really seen any euchre machine learning algorithms so it’ll be mostly original.
