Our project will be an attempt at making a machine learning algorithm for the card game euchre. This algorithm will teach itself how to play by playing others and learning from its own mistakes and by making inferences into possible better play. I would like to be able to create an artificial neural network and integrate it into the algorithm. I would also like to incorporate AI that are already programmed to play euchre into the project to make the learning process a little more smooth otherwise will have to play countless games of euchre personally in order for the program to learn. For the most part we are planning on writing the program in python. This will definitely require a lot of research on my part because I have never studied machine learning in a traditional format.

There are a few things that I have learned from my coursework that I believe I can apply to this project. One thing we will need to define in order to work together as a team will be some kind of workflow process. We learned about these in the Software Engineering (EECE3093) course and I will use that knowledge to select a process that works best for us as a team. Another huge part of this project will be designing the machine learning algorithm. I can use what I learned in Design & Analysis of Algorithms (CS4071) to help me create efficient and reliable algorithms. Lastly, Database Design & Development will help me create a datastore that will allow me and the program to store and retrieve data.


I learned a lot of things while working as a developer for Ingage Partners that I plan to apply to this project. First off will be building some sort of front-end interface into the game. I learned how to build front end interfaces while developing features for stakeholders, this will be essential in order to play the game with the algorithm. Another skill I learned while working as a developer is querying a database. I plan to use this to store and retrieve data between sessions including the results of games and other information. This will come in handy when tracking the progress of the program's learning.

I am excited to participate in this project because I have been interested in machine learning for a couple years now. As I have not taken any classes in artificial intelligence or machine learning, I am a little nervous about how well I will be able to do but I am also very excited to learn. My preliminary approach to this project will be to program the rules and interface for the game so that we have something to plug the machine learning algorithm into. Once I have the game engine up and running I will start to hash out the algorithm. Then I will have to set up some way to store game data for future reference. When that is done I will either plug bots in to play against the algorithm or play against it personally and track its learning progress.

The result I expect and desire after this project will be an AI that has learned how to play euchre at a competitive level. Competitive here means that it can challenge even high-level human players. It will be hard to know when the project is truly done because one can always continue learning but for the purposes of this project I think it will be safe to say the algorithm is done when it learns how to play euchre at a proficient level. A proficient level can be defined as the level of play where the program starts regularly winning games. Euchre is partially a luck based game so some wins can be expected even with poor play. That said I will know that we have done a good job when the program can consistently challenge me in a game as I consider myself a medium-level player.
